[Music]
laughs
the new wet season means the chimps are
once again full of energy
bad news for the local columbus
the hunting season has started
[Music]
maji spots an opportunity this time he
doesn't waste it
he initiates his first hunt
[Music]
the male collabors try to frighten him
off
he's not much bigger than they are but
he bravely carries on
and calls out for the rest of the team
[Applause]
[Music]
reinforcements arrive brutus and tatari
are here to finish the job
[Applause]
the whole family joins in
[Music]
uh
the catch is a good one
there's more than enough meat to go
around a hunt like this really brings
the community together
the beaches family have a new arrival
puck's precious eighth calf is a boy
named sammy
no more than a few hours old the baby
instinctively shadows his mom's every
move
samu calls continuously to her as if to
say i'm here i'm here
[Music]
[Applause]
in the first hours of samo's life he is
on a huge learning curve
less than a meter long samu must first
perfect the art of breathing
and swimming
bobbing up and down samu's movements are
jerky
and uncoordinating
[Music]
this tiny dorsal fin is still floppy
from being squashed up inside mum
puck doesn't let her baby out of her
sight for a second
until now park has chosen to be alone
with samu
perhaps giving him time to adjust to his
new world
[Music]
then something remarkable happens as the
rest of the beaches family start to
arrive
as if to celebrate puck's daughters and
grandchildren are gathering to welcome
the youngster into this close-knit
[Music]
family
whether she called them in will never be
known but at last the rest of the
beaches family
meet little samuel
with her family around her puck can
afford to relax
knowing their safety in numbers
back in the hive those bees too young to
forage
are housekeeping
like the hornet queen the queen bee has
the immeasurable task of laying enough
eggs
to ensure the health and future of the
colony
the custom of keeping wild japanese bees
is as old as society itself
and yamaguchi has kept bees since
boyhood
japanese bees are so sensitive that it
takes great patience
and skill to keep them the art of
keeping them
lies in understanding their behavior
they make honey stores for the winter
but they also produce enough for
yamaguchi to harvest
japanese bees may produce less honey
than european bees
but the taste is very special
it's the smell of this growing store of
energy-rich honey
which could be their downfall if it
draws in a hornet scout
but right now the hornets have other
problems to contend with
the nest is now monstrous the workers
have excavated
over a ton of earth
there are so many bodies living at close
quarters that the queen and her dynasty
are in danger of overheating
so workers create air conditioning
keeping a steady flow of fresh air
circulating
being unable to cope with high
temperatures is a giant hornet's
achilles heel
the warmth of the hornet's nest belies
the change in season
seasons change fast up here in the
mountains
and when autumn arrives there are far
fewer insects around
this means my hives are even more
vulnerable
to attack for me
it's an anxious time
in the search for autumnal food a scout
hornet
discovers yamaguchi's wild bees
the honeybees fan an alarm pheromone
through the air
this alerts the whole hive to the
hornet's presence
the scout smells the honey within a
prize this rich is worth scent marking
but unlike the european bees these
japanese bees
do not attack instead they lure the
scout
inside
still the bees hang fire
then one is caught it's the signal the
others have been waiting for
[Music]
surrounded by vibrating bodies the
hornet at the core of the b-ball begins
to overheat
the bees have the advantage a heat
tolerance two degrees above that of
their enemy
[Music]
at 46 degrees celsius the aggressor
is roasted alive
the wild bees have spent millions of
years living with the enemy
that's why they alone have developed
this extraordinary survival strategy
for the founding queen sharing her nest
with all these rivals seems like madness
but the economics of desert survival is
a numbers game
and for the moment at least this
communal life
is the key to her future
each queen now lays her first batch of
tiny eggs
each no bigger than a pinhead
many new nests contain two or three
queens
limiting the initial brood to less than
100 eggs
but these ten queens have produced well
over 300 eggs
and when they hatch the colony will
become
an instant superpower
for the founding queen this is the main
advantage to taking in lodges
[Music]
if the eggs are not kept clean and
coated with antibiotic saliva
they would quickly be smothered by fungi
and rot away
the eggs soon hatch
fed by the queens the voracious larvae
grow quickly and then pupate
a few weeks after the eggs were laid the
first
tiny pale workers emerged from these
silky cocoons
all ant workers are female
and sterile unable to reproduce
themselves
their sole purpose in life is to serve
the queens
they darken as their bodies become
harder
and then they are ready to take up their
duties
some stay underground tending to the
queens
and to the remaining brood
others head for the surface for a first
look
at their strange new world